optimal posture impression assistance
presents the essentials of postural
physiology section 1 anatomy and
physiology also known as form and
function the muscles of your body can be
divided into two groups the flexors and
the extensors the flexors and the
extensors are considered anatomically
opposite and share an antagonist versus
protagonists relationship that is to say
when a flexor is contracted it's
physiologically opposed extensors must
loosen same holds true in Reverse this
is a fundamental principle of
musculoskeletal biomechanics for the
most part the flexors are located in
front of the body above the waist and in
back of the body below the waist the
physiological function of the flexors
are to pull the body into the fetal
position when they are contracted
conversely the extensors are for the
most part located in back of the body
above the waist and in front of the body
below the waist the physiological
function of the extensors are to get you
to stand up straight when they are
contracted in order to maintain an
optimal posture physiology a fine
balance must be achieved between the
flexors and the extensors section 2
pathophysiology also known as poor
function an essential component of the
degenerative process is the tendency for
the flexors throughout the body to
overpower and dominate the extensors the
result is that the flexors begin to pull
the head down and forward into the
classic head forward posture the flexor
dominant head forward posture is one of
the greatest enemies of the
musculoskeletal system the flexor
dominant head forward posture puts a
tremendous amount of injurious stress on
every single joint in the body
Section three solutions now that we
understand the problem the solution is
simple that is reduce or eliminate
flexor dominance from within the
musculoskeletal system the optimal
posture and impression insist 'm is
uniquely capable of isolating and
activating the extensors of the
musculoskeletal system historically the
extensors have been notoriously
difficult to activate with traditional
physical therapy exercises with the
optimal posture impression insist 'm
isolating and activating the extensors
is simple efficient and effective once
the extensors have been properly
activated the flexors can then be
retrained to operate in balance with the
extensors this optimal state of balance
between the flexors and the extensors
creates the optimal environment for the
musculoskeletal system to heal and
operate in make this optimal state a
reality with the optimal posture
impression insist 'm